final/readme.md, before:

# CORE SYSTEMS: FINAL PROJECT UPDATE

*Posted on November 29, 2015*

## PROGRESS SO FAR

I’ve managed to create the code for two basic park maps: one of Union Sq Park and one of Washington Sq Park. They’re both very rough and need some work, but I’m trying to focus right now on the generation of multiple game objects and having different types of interaction. I’m getting confused with the creation and management of classes, and need to consult wit Ayo for some help before I proceed further.

- [Union Sq Park Map](https://designerstory.files.wordpress.com/2015/11/screen-shot-2015-11-29-at-9-21-51-pm.png?w=700&h=&crop=1)
- [Washington Sq Park Map](https://designerstory.files.wordpress.com/2015/11/screen-shot-2015-11-29-at-8-27-41-pm.png?w=1200&h=&crop=1)

<hr /><hr />

# CORE SYSTEMS: FINAL PROJECT PROPOSAL

*Posted on November 29, 2015*

## GENERAL INQUIRY 

For this project, I plan to explore this issue of homelessness, specifically in New York City. I plan to create an interactive installation which draws attention to the problems each homeless person faces not only living each day without shelter or a job, but which draws particular attention to the frustrating and, in many cases, near-impossible hurdles that are required for one to overcome in order to escape homelessness, even when receiving institutional assistance/aid.

Some specific issues I wish to address:

- Primary causes of homelessness in NYC
- Difficulties being unsheltered/sheltered homeless in NYC, especially dealing with the municipal shelter system and obtaining work.
- Difficulties obtaining a bed in municipal shelters in NYC and keeping it, and why many feel it is more trouble than it is worth.
- Issues of untreated addiction disorders, mental illness, and the never-ending cycle of homelessness many experience in NYC

## CONTEXT

For this project, my research will have to revolve around the specifics of how people become homeless, why the become homeless, and the different paths and methods they choose to either live as homeless or attempt to escape it, the successes and failures, and what leads to both. Fortunately, there is already a great deal of research done on the subject, so the information should be easy enough to gather. What will be less simple is sorting it all out for the purposes and applications of this project.

## ARTIFACT RESEARCH

This topic is one with prolific examples of prior attempt to draw attention to the problem. Through all forms of media, from sculpture to painting, from installation to music, there is no shortage of artists and designers trying to draw attention to this city’s and this nation’s homeless population. What, however, I notice about these pieces are that they all seem to be mere appeals for attentiveness to the problem that there are homeless people, and that it is a major and growing issue. My research finds that most pieces merely draw attention to the problem, while few educate. None offer solutions.

### EXAMPLE 1

>For more than two decades now, artist Willie Baronet has committed himself to a “found” art project of sorts. Whenever he encounters homeless people with signs he finds fascinating, he offers tobuy them from them, usually for $10. Altogether, he now has hundreds of signs that represent a diversity of stories from impoverished people throughout the country.

>In recent years, Baronet began displaying these signs as collages and sculptures in galleries. Though people tend to pay little attention to these signs when they encounter them in real life, they’re confronted with the needs and emotions of those down on their luck and are forced to reflect on the circumstances behind it. “I know this makes some people uncomfortable,” Baronet acknowledged. “Sometimes I like creating art that furthers that.”

### EXAMPLE 2

>Jani Leinonen, a conceptual artist originally from Finland, set up what looks like, from a distance, a fast food restaurant in Budapest, Hungary. Get closer to the sign, however, and you’ll see the Burger King logo actually says “Hunger King.”
	
>The interactive installation invites people to stand in one of two lines, “Rich” and “Poor.” People in the rich queue are handed phony burgers and fries, along with information about income equality to get them thinking about the homeless epidemic in their city. Meanwhile, people in the poor line receive fast food boxes filled with real money – the daily minimum wage, to be precise. Because of the element of charity, the artwork has attracted a lot of actual homeless people to participate.
	
>Though Leinonen is pleased with educating the populace about societal problems, he likes the added critique that the crowd itself generates. He points out that while homeless people are regularly forbidden from congregating on public streets and sidewalks, no one takes issue with people who block walkways for a consumerist pursuit like buying fast food.

### EXAMPLE 3

>New York City is known for celebrating its vibrant art scene, while simultaneously ignoring the ongoing homeless epidemic. For that reason, hometown artist Andres Serrano decided to blur the lines between art and poverty by photographing dozens of the city’s homeless (Serrano says he rejects that term, however) people and displaying the portraits in large form in public places in a project he calls Residents of New York.

>It’s a brilliant concept since New Yorkers are trained to avoid eye contact with homeless people, but look right at the art. Suddenly, some of the same people commuters briskly walked by a few minutes prior are now reappearing again on the walls of the subway. It’s an opportunity for people to look more closely at those they ignore and recognize the humanity in them… something that hopefully carries over into a non-gallery setting, too.

### WHAT’S LACKING

Again, these, as most installations/pieces, simply attempt to draw attention to the problem of homelessness itself. While my second example attempt to educate on the subject of income inequality, research shows that that problem is an incidental cause of homelessness, and not a meaningfully related issue. Regarding direct causes of homelessness, the primary causes are eviction, doubled-up or severely overcrowded housing, domestic violence, job loss, and hazardous housing conditions.

## CONCLUSION

I propose, for my project, to, instead, educate people on the inherent difficulties the homeless face while attempting to navigate the municipal shelter system and make their way out of homelessness. I intend to educate people not on the fact that there are homeless people, but on the real problems and challenges that these people face in overcoming their situation.

## HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE

A preliminary assessment will likely see this project taking the form of an interactive installation/video game. Based on the Raspberry Pi with a likely Arduino-based controller (or maybe just a GPIO controller connected directly to the rPI), the game will run on p5JS.

Commit message:

final, code-complete
my final project, code-complete

final/readme.md, after:

# CORE SYSTEMS: FINAL PROJECT COMPLETE

*Posted on December 21, 2015*

## A CHANGE IN DIRECTION

I've decided to change direction away from creating a game. Instead, I have created an interactive educational interface which will lead the user through 5 slides, each with 3 popouts which expand on the concepts introduced in each slide. The popouts are triggered by collision detection, and are themselves image overlays within the canvas.

This is the final version of the interface which will be submitted as my final project for Core: Netwroks & Systems for the Fall 2015 semester.

<hr /><hr />

# CORE SYSTEMS: FINAL PROJECT UPDATE

*Posted on November 29, 2015*

## PROGRESS SO FAR

I’ve managed to create the code for two basic park maps: one of Union Sq Park and one of Washington Sq Park. They’re both very rough and need some work, but I’m trying to focus right now on the generation of multiple game objects and having different types of interaction. I’m getting confused with the creation and management of classes, and need to consult wit Ayo for some help before I proceed further.

- [Union Sq Park Map](https://designerstory.files.wordpress.com/2015/11/screen-shot-2015-11-29-at-9-21-51-pm.png?w=700&h=&crop=1)
- [Washington Sq Park Map](https://designerstory.files.wordpress.com/2015/11/screen-shot-2015-11-29-at-8-27-41-pm.png?w=1200&h=&crop=1)

<hr /><hr />

# CORE SYSTEMS: FINAL PROJECT PROPOSAL

*Posted on November 29, 2015*

## GENERAL INQUIRY

For this project, I plan to explore this issue of homelessness, specifically in New York City. I plan to create an interactive installation which draws attention to the problems each homeless person faces not only living each day without shelter or a job, but which draws particular attention to the frustrating and, in many cases, near-impossible hurdles that are required for one to overcome in order to escape homelessness, even when receiving institutional assistance/aid.

Some specific issues I wish to address:

- Primary causes of homelessness in NYC
- Difficulties being unsheltered/sheltered homeless in NYC, especially dealing with the municipal shelter system and obtaining work.
- Difficulties obtaining a bed in municipal shelters in NYC and keeping it, and why many feel it is more trouble than it is worth.
- Issues of untreated addiction disorders, mental illness, and the never-ending cycle of homelessness many experience in NYC

## CONTEXT

For this project, my research will have to revolve around the specifics of how people become homeless, why the become homeless, and the different paths and methods they choose to either live as homeless or attempt to escape it, the successes and failures, and what leads to both. Fortunately, there is already a great deal of research done on the subject, so the information should be easy enough to gather. What will be less simple is sorting it all out for the purposes and applications of this project.

## ARTIFACT RESEARCH

This topic is one with prolific examples of prior attempt to draw attention to the problem. Through all forms of media, from sculpture to painting, from installation to music, there is no shortage of artists and designers trying to draw attention to this city’s and this nation’s homeless population. What, however, I notice about these pieces are that they all seem to be mere appeals for attentiveness to the problem that there are homeless people, and that it is a major and growing issue. My research finds that most pieces merely draw attention to the problem, while few educate. None offer solutions.

### EXAMPLE 1

>For more than two decades now, artist Willie Baronet has committed himself to a “found” art project of sorts. Whenever he encounters homeless people with signs he finds fascinating, he offers tobuy them from them, usually for $10. Altogether, he now has hundreds of signs that represent a diversity of stories from impoverished people throughout the country.

>In recent years, Baronet began displaying these signs as collages and sculptures in galleries. Though people tend to pay little attention to these signs when they encounter them in real life, they’re confronted with the needs and emotions of those down on their luck and are forced to reflect on the circumstances behind it. “I know this makes some people uncomfortable,” Baronet acknowledged. “Sometimes I like creating art that furthers that.”

### EXAMPLE 2

>Jani Leinonen, a conceptual artist originally from Finland, set up what looks like, from a distance, a fast food restaurant in Budapest, Hungary. Get closer to the sign, however, and you’ll see the Burger King logo actually says “Hunger King.”

>The interactive installation invites people to stand in one of two lines, “Rich” and “Poor.” People in the rich queue are handed phony burgers and fries, along with information about income equality to get them thinking about the homeless epidemic in their city. Meanwhile, people in the poor line receive fast food boxes filled with real money – the daily minimum wage, to be precise. Because of the element of charity, the artwork has attracted a lot of actual homeless people to participate.

>Though Leinonen is pleased with educating the populace about societal problems, he likes the added critique that the crowd itself generates. He points out that while homeless people are regularly forbidden from congregating on public streets and sidewalks, no one takes issue with people who block walkways for a consumerist pursuit like buying fast food.

### EXAMPLE 3

>New York City is known for celebrating its vibrant art scene, while simultaneously ignoring the ongoing homeless epidemic. For that reason, hometown artist Andres Serrano decided to blur the lines between art and poverty by photographing dozens of the city’s homeless (Serrano says he rejects that term, however) people and displaying the portraits in large form in public places in a project he calls Residents of New York.

>It’s a brilliant concept since New Yorkers are trained to avoid eye contact with homeless people, but look right at the art. Suddenly, some of the same people commuters briskly walked by a few minutes prior are now reappearing again on the walls of the subway. It’s an opportunity for people to look more closely at those they ignore and recognize the humanity in them… something that hopefully carries over into a non-gallery setting, too.

### WHAT’S LACKING

Again, these, as most installations/pieces, simply attempt to draw attention to the problem of homelessness itself. While my second example attempt to educate on the subject of income inequality, research shows that that problem is an incidental cause of homelessness, and not a meaningfully related issue. Regarding direct causes of homelessness, the primary causes are eviction, doubled-up or severely overcrowded housing, domestic violence, job loss, and hazardous housing conditions.

## CONCLUSION

I propose, for my project, to, instead, educate people on the inherent difficulties the homeless face while attempting to navigate the municipal shelter system and make their way out of homelessness. I intend to educate people not on the fact that there are homeless people, but on the real problems and challenges that these people face in overcoming their situation.

## HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE

A preliminary assessment will likely see this project taking the form of an interactive installation/video game. Based on the Raspberry Pi with a likely Arduino-based controller (or maybe just a GPIO controller connected directly to the rPI), the game will run on p5JS.
